So all the metrics we've seen
so far in this course are metrics
taken directly from the inner services that we have
enabled by default,
but there is a way for you to get custom metrics for
CloudWatch, and this is choose,
you can define your own custom metrics.
For example, you wanted to push the memory usage for the RAM
to CloudWatch or the disk base.
So the number of login user for your application for this,
you would use an API call named PutMetricData.
You can add dimensions or attributes
to your segment metrics.
For example, instance.id, environment.name,
whatever you want really.
It's up to you to name it however you want.
And then you can specify a metric resolution with a storage
resolution, API parameter with two possible values.
So either it's a standard custom metric and you can push a
metric every one minute.
So 60 seconds.
Or it can enable very high resolution.
In which case you can enable to push metrics
every one, five, 10, or 30 seconds, okay.
Something good to know is that with custom metrics,
when you push a metric in the past or in the future,
this works as well.
So this is a very important exam point.
So if you are pushing a metric up to two weeks in the past
or two hours in the future,
you're not going to get an error from CloudWatch, okay.
This is going to accept your metric as is.
And so that means you need to make sure that your
EC2 instance time is currently configured.
If you want the metrics to be synchronized with the actual
time from AWS.
So let's push a custom metric.
And for this, I went to the documentation into CloudWatch,
put metric data.
This is a CLI documentation,
and this shows you how to push a metric into CloudWatch.
So I'm not going to read the documentation.
You can have a look at all the parameters in here, okay.
But very important timestamp can be specified.
And so you can specify a timestamp up to two weeks in the
past and two hours in the future.
So very, very important.
Then you can specify the data,
the name of the value of the units, the value,
and so on dimensions, as well as the storage resolution,
if you want it to get a high resolution metric
or a standard resolution, okay.
So what I'm going to do is just push a very custom example.
So at the end there's examples,
and you can use a metrics of JS file to push a metric like
this, if you want it to, and then use this API call,
or if you want it to go even quicker,
you can just use one API command to specify the value of
your metric, the unit, the bytes,
as well as instance ID instance type and so on.
And so let me take this command right here,
and we're going to open the CloudShell utility
to push that metric,
Okay, so CloudShell is launched
and I'm going to paste the command in and then press enter.
So this is going to push a custom metric into CloudWatch.
Now you have to imagine that if this is done from an
institute instance with a script, for example,
you can push any metric regularly.
Right now I'm just pushing one data point using the CLI into
CloudWatch, which is quite empty already, okay.
And if you know, the unified agent for CloudWatch,
what it does is that it does use this put metric data API
call to push metrics into CloudWatch regularly.
So when this is pushed,
we have pushed a new namespace named MyNameSpace.
And so that means that if I go back to my CloudWatch metrics
and refresh this,
I need to clear my graph.
And then I'm just going to go out of the service.
And going back to the service is going to be easier,
then go to all metrics.
And as you can see, we have a custom namespace
that has been created right here.
So all of those before where namespaces credited by AWS,
but now we have a namespace created by us.
And so in it we have two dimensions instance ID and
instance type,
and these represents the same instance ID and instance type
dimensions that were specified in the command.
So this is up to you to define these dimensions,
obviously, then you click on it and you can see the instance
ID, the instance type and the metric name buffers.
And if I click on it now, we don't see much because, well,
we don't have much,
but there's one data point in here that has been created,
okay, and this is part of my custom metric.
So that's, it, it's quite easy.
You can see how to create custom metrics,
very easily using an API call.
So I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.